S.Muthunpandian et.al [1] has given an automated system has
been designed and implemented on for crop field monitoring
continuously. The system maintains the water levels in the
crop field at power consumption in the crop field. Developed
system is useful in the irrigation system.
Joaquin Gutierrez et.al [2] showed automated irrigation
system that reduces the water resources more effective by
considering the timing of water scarcity. They shown water
utilization is minimized and incorporated a solar power system
to reduce power consumption. This was developed by smart
phone operating by considering the sensors data via internet.
Mohan raj et.al [3] focuses on monitoring the data in farming
cycle. The system contains ATMEL microcontroller based
GSM operated sensors are used to monitors wind mill
temperature variation PH level of water. After that an Arduino
based IOT system are used however when we consider the to
monitor the huge number of Raspberry pi system is more
suitable. Michael G.Williams [4] showed an irrigation system
with raspberry pi system. Raspberry pi based systems for
home automation, entertainment systems, security.
Developing Raspberry systems are more interesting for
thrusting environments [10].

1. S,muthunpandian, S.Vigneshwaran , R.C Ranjitsabarinath ,
Y.Manoj kumar reddy “IOT Based Crop-Field Monitoring And
Irrigation Automation” Vol. 4, Special Issue 19, April 2017
2. Joaquín Gutiérrez, Juan Francisco Villa-Medina, Alejandra Nieto-
Garibay, and Miguel Ángel Porta-Gándara” Automated Irrigation
System Using a Wireless Sensor Network and GPRS Module”
IEEE Transactions On Instrumentation And Measurement,Vol 17,
2017
3. Mohanraj I Kirthika Ashokumarb, Naren J ” Field Monitoring and
Automation using IOT in Agriculture Domain” IJCSNS, VOL.15
No.6, June 2015
4. Michael G Williams “A Risk Assessment on Raspberry PI using
NIST Standards “Version 1.0 December 2012.
10. Joaquín Gutiérrez, Juan Francisco Villa-Medina, Alejandra Nieto-
Garibay, and Miguel Ángel Porta-Gándara, “Automated Irrigation
System Using a Wireless Sensor Network and GPRS Module”,
IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurements, 0018-
9456,2013


H. Chang et al [3] developed a new agriculture monitoring
system based on WSNs. Y. Jiber et al [4] proposed a
precision agriculture monitoring approach that provides
meaningful services to farmers. It reports the advantage of the
precision agriculture approach to help making valued
decisions which could not only increase the land productivity
but also optimize the use of various resources. F. G. Costa et
al [5] describes an architecture based on unmanned aerial
vehicles (UAVs) which can be employed to implement a
control loop for agricultural applications where UAVs are
responsible for spraying important chemicals on crops. The
process of applying the chemicals is controlled by means of
the feedback obtained from the wireless sensor network
deployed on the crop field. The obtained results show that the
adjustment of the route based on the feedback information
from the sensors could minimize the wastage of pesticides.
Stipanicev et al [6] describes a networked embedded
greenhouse monitoring and control based on simple
embedded web servers and connecting sensors and actuators
using 1-wire protocol. M. Martinelli et al [7] proposed a
WSN-based solution for precision farm purposes. Y. Kim et
al [8] designed a remote sensing and control of an irrigation
system using a distributed WSN. In the proposed system
communication signals from the sensor network and
irrigation controller to the base station were successfully
interfaced using low-cost bluetooth wireless radio receiver.
Graphical user interface-based software has been developed
to offer stable remote access to field conditions and real-time
control and monitoring of the variable-rate irrigation
controller. A. Hanggoro et al [9] proposed and designed a
greenhouse monitoring and controlling is a complete system
designed to monitor and control the humidity inside a green
house. It uses an android mobile phone, connected using Wi-
Fi to a central server which connects via serial
communication to a microcontroller and humidity sensor. S.
Jin et al [10] developed a remote measurement and control
system of large-scale greenhouse based on GSM-SMS. S. O.
Al Mehairi et al [11] discusses the design and
implementation of a prototype system which integrates
various existing technologies for home monitoring and
control that fits with the future smart home concept. In this
work the various devices in the home are connected
wirelessly using Bluetooth standard to a home server and can
be monitored and controlled via the mobile phone using a
portable MIDlet application. J. Gutiérrez et al [12] developed
an automated irrigation system using a WSN and GPRS
module in which an algorithm was developed with different
threshold values to control various parameters. Compared to
the existing related research works, in this paper, we propose
a mobile wireless robot which collects the data from different
types of sensors and then send it to main server using
wireless protocol. The collected data from various sensors
onboard the mobile robot provides the information about
different environmental factors around the plants which in
turns helps to monitor the entire agricultural field. Monitoring
itself is not enough and complete solution to improve the
yield of the crops is important. Also there are number of
other factors that affect the productivity of crops to a great
extent. These factors include attack of insects and pests which
can be controlled by spraying the crop with proper insecticide
and pesticides. Secondly, attack of wild animals and birds
when the crops are in growing stage. This can be avoided by
periodically generating a loud creak to scare the birds and
mammals from the robot, whenever it senses any unknown
object near the fields. There is also possibility of thefts when
crop is at the stage of harvesting. So, in order to provide
solutions to all such problems, it is essential to develop a
wireless integrated system such as novel mobile robot using
Raspberry Pi 2 Model B incorporating various sensors.

[3] H. Chang, N. Zhou, X. Zhao, Q. Cao, M. Tan and Y. Zhang, "A new
agriculture monitoring system based on WSNs," 2014 12th International
Conference on Signal Processing (ICSP), Hangzhou, 2014, pp. 1755-1760.
[4] Y. Jiber, H. Harroud and A. Karmouch, "Precision agriculture monitoring
framework based on WSN," 2011 7th International Wireless
Communications and Mobile Computing Conference, Istanbul, 2011, pp.
2015-2020.
[5] F. G. Costa, J. Ueyama, T. Braun, G. Pessin, F. S. Osório and P. A.
Vargas, "The use of unmanned aerial vehicles and wireless sensor network in
agricultural applications," 2012 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote
Sensing Symposium, Munich, 2012, pp. 5045-5048.
[6] Stipanicev, D.; Marasovic, J., "Networked embedded greenhouse
monitoring and control," in Control Applications, 2003. CCA 2003.
Proceedings of 2003 IEEE Conference on, vol.2, no., pp.(1350-1355) vol.2,
(23-25) June 2003.
[7] M. Martinelli, L. Ioriatti, F. Viani, M. Benedetti and A. Massa, "A WSNbased
solution for precision farm purposes," 2009 IEEE International
Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Cape Town, 2009, pp. V-469-
V-472.
[8] Y. Kim, R. G. Evans and W. M. Iversen, "Remote Sensing and Control of
an Irrigation System Using a Distributed Wireless Sensor Network," in IEEE
Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 57, no. 7, pp. 1379-
1387, July 2008.
[9] A. Hanggoro, M. A. Putra, R. Reynaldo and R. F. Sari, "Green house
monitoring and controlling using Android mobile application," 2013
International Conference on QiR, Yogyakarta, 2013, pp. 79-85.
[10] S. Jin, S. Jingling, H. Qiuyan, W. Shengde and Y. Yan, "A Remote
Measurement and Control System for Greenhouse Based on GSM-SMS,"
2007 8th International Conference on Electronic Measurement and
Instruments, Xi'an, 2007, pp. 2-82-2-85.
[11] S. O. Al Mehairi, H. Barada and M. Al Qutayri, "Integration of
Technologies for Smart Home Application," 2007 IEEE/ACS International
Conference on Computer Systems and Applications, Amman, 2007, pp. 241-
246.
[12] J. Gutiérrez, J. F. Villa-Medina, A. Nieto-Garibay and M. Á. Porta-
Gándara, "Automated Irrigation System Using a Wireless Sensor Network
and GPRS Module," in IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and
Measurement, vol. 63, no. 1, pp. 166-176, Jan. 2014.



The research in agriculture area is enhanced in various aspects to
improve the quality and quantity of productivity of agriculture.
Researchers have been worked on many different projects on soil
attributes, different weather conditions as well as scouting crops.
Some projects worked on actual farm fields and some worked on
polyhouses. Researches of Carrnige Mellon University worked on
plant nursery using Wireless Sensor Technology [2]. Wireless Sensor
Network based polyhouse monitoring system is explained in [3]
which make use of environment temperature, humidity, CO2 level
and sufficient light detection modules. This polyhouse control
technology provides automatic adjustment of polyhouse. . In [4]
authors have proposed development of wsn based above mentioned
parameters for agriculture using ZigBee protocol and GPS
technology. In some projects such as [5] authors have designed and
implemented an approach in development of crops monitoring system
in real time to increase production of rice plants. This system has
used motes with sensors to check leaf wetness. Later on use of IoT
has been proposed in [6-8]. IoT gives platform to researches to
maintain real time data and send alerts immediately to farmers. IoT
implementation gives easy access to information that comes from
sensor nodes. IoT is also used for product supply chain business
process. Cloud architecture gives additional support to IoT in
maintaining Big data of agriculture information viz. history
information, soil properties, fertilizers distribution, image cultivation
through camera and information collected through sensors, recording
information etc. Authors have analyzed collected data for finding
correlation between environment, work and yield for standard work
model construction. Monitoring for adverse signs and fault detection.
In [9] authors have discussed the application of data mining with the
help of WEKA tool and analysis model using of machine learning
algorithms. In [10] authors have concentrated on crop monitoring.
Information of temperature and rainfall is collected as initial spatial
data and analyzed to reduce the crop losses and to improve the crop
production. They have used optimization method to show progressive
refinement for spatial association analysis. Although authors
mentioned above have proposed many models in agriculture domain,
the effective model is needed that uses new technologies and
provides an integrated approach to monitor environmental conditions
periodically and various soil properties of farm field through IoT
devices and store these details at the central place in the cloud storage
which results in Big –data over the time. It is also usable by multiple
vendors or farmers who enquire about crop yield maximization.
Farmer can analyze these data for fertilizer requirements for current
crop. It will help for smart climate solutions and disaster prevention.

[2] Junaid ahmed zubairi , ” Application of modern high performance
networks” Bentham science publishers Ltd. 2009, pg. 120-129.
[3] Yongxian Song, Juanli Ma, Xianjin Zhang, Yuan Feng, “Design of
Wireless Sensor Network-Based Greenhouse Environment monitoring
and Automatic Control System”, JOURNAL OF NETWORKS, VOL. 7,
NO. 5, MAY 2012.
[4] G.V.Satyanarayana, SD.Mazaruddin, “Wireless Sensor Based Remote
Monitoring System for Agriculture using ZigBee and GPS”, Conference
on Advances in Communication and Control Systems 2013.
[5] N.Sakthipriya, “An Effective Method for Crop Monitoring Using Wireless
Sensor Network”, MiddleEast Journal of Scientific Research 20(9):1127-
1132, 2014 ISSN 1990-9233.
[6] Alexandros Kaloxylos “Farm management systems and the Future Internet
era”, Computer and Electronics in Agriculture 89(2012)130144.
[7] Xiaohui Wang, Nannan Liu, “The Application of Internet of Things in
Agricultural means of production supply chain management”, Research
Article, Journal of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Research,
2014,6(7):2304-2310.
[8] Li Minbo, Zhu Zhu, Chen Guangyu, “Information Service System of
Agriculture IoT”, AUTOMATICA 54(2013) 4, 415-426.
[9] Sally Jo Cunningham, Geoffrey Holmes, “Developing innovative
applications in agriculture using data mining”, SEARCC’99 conference
proceedings.
[10] D.Rajesh, “Application of Spatial Data Mining for Agriculture”,
International Journal of Computer Applications (0975-8887) Volume 15-
No.2, February 2011.
545